# How much work can you do in one day?

I don't think there's an easy answer to that question, even removing the usual sources of randomness.

- How well did I sleep last night?
- What type of work am I doing? If it's something I'm excited about, I can easily work 12 hours in one day. If it's idiotic management-type work, I'm completely shot after two hours. I want to work on something worthwhile, but here I sit, dealing with this crap.
- How many different tasks am I doing? Context switching is well known to kill your brain quickly. In order to offset this, I do a couple of things. First, I try to take notes so that I'm not losing energy trying to remember a thousand things flying at me at once. It's easy to get overwhelmed, and once that happens, my body shuts down. Writing things out, especially when I can make an outline in Emacs using org-mode, is my way of avoiding overwhelm. Second, I try to take a break between meetings and tasks of different types. I need time to process what just happened. It's extremely stressful to send an email of critical importance and then immediately follow that with an important meeting. I can't switch gears that fast. I can't handle the stress of thinking "what if I messed that up" and "what am I forgetting"?
- Work with email in batches. I will check my email a few times during the day just to be sure nothing's going to blow up. I have little choice in my current role. That doesn't mean I need to respond to email. I move it to a review folder in my email client and then I don't have to see it again until I'm ready to do something with it. Email's an energy killer for sure. If you leave something in your inbox it will stress you out every single time you see it. Get it out of the inbox. Shut of your email client for a while. Nobody in any job needs to respond to anything in less than an hour. That's the nature of email. It's a dang distraction device.
- Have I mixed in enough truly important work so that I'm not distracted by that all day? I try to get in at least four hours a day of quality work time if possible.